---
layout: page
published: false
title: Round Up
---

# Heather Leson

For the birthday sprint, I created a mini-project to do an edit sprint on the HOT website. While a number of people reviewed the doc, it was really just me typing. 


https://docs.google.com/a/hotosm.org/document/d/1Pb7VgHpHjSfXVAPwr-UucUREX90_h57QByLK5xiBhiA/edit

The additional items remain open on HOT's github. I'll post to the HOT mailing list and ask for more help and keep at it
Heather

# Drew Dara-Abrams

We had a good crowd in SF last Thursday evening, including not one but two cakes, as well as a decent number of folks new to OSM: http://maptimesf.tumblr.com/post/58301987190/thanks-to-everyone-who-came-out-last-week-for-osms

Let's just say that between the beer and the people, I didn't make any commits that evening. Since then, I've been making more "baby steps" on adding group functionality to the OSM Web app.

Best from SF,
Drew

# Alex Barth

Thanks for calling a sprint again. Always good to have an excuse to come together. I like how casual this was and how many new faces we get at these types of events in DC.

I made some good progress here on restarting the dc building footprint import https://github.com/osmlab/dcbuildings together with Chris Andino, Travis and others. 

# Susanna Ånäs

Hi everyone,

On behalf of the Wikimaps project, thank you for including us in the project!

During the code sprint I was presenting Wikimaps in Wikimania in Hong Kong. You might be interested in the slides that are here http://www.slideshare.net/susannaanas/wikimaps-wikimania. If there are visuals from the code sprint I would be happy to include them in a subsequent update of the slides. There was great interest in the audience toward the crossover between Open Historical Maps and Wikimedia.

We knew already beforehand that we would not be accomplishing a lot during the sprint as our prototype workflow is only taking shape. It's possible now to play around with our materials. Please, if you want, get your hands dirty with our stuff! And try again later if something does not work :)

We have new active participants and support in Wikimedia as well as in OSM through the SotM Baltics event that was linked to this.

We are interested in this kind of events in the future, and we might even be readier for one later on.

I would be keen to hear about the other projects. I hope you don't mind me pitching ours!

Cheers,
Susanna

# Clara

Here's Clara's update on the HOT website, my notes on Tasking Server, and something about LearnOSM.

<clara> xamanu and me did an upgrade to Drupal 7
<clara> recreating what's currently on the site
<clara> and now we can theme it and add additional functionality
<mkl> cool. anything we can look at? how far til we can switch over?
<dodobas> hi
<clara> doesn't look pretty now - but it's a mobile theme already
<mkl> hi dodobas
<clara> https://dev-d7-hot.gotpantheon.com
<mkl> oh that's nice, it's responsive?
<clara> yes responsive
<mkl> cool
<clara> all the current accounts work on it but I changed the admin password on it
<clara> we can switch over once the theme looks pretty, and an issue with Openlayers is fixed
<mkl> what's the timeline to theme it ... and would we be able to swtich then?
<mkl> right on
<clara> xamanu should know how far the theme is off
<mkl> need any help in particular from anyone? or got that openlayers stuff under control?
<mkl> k
<mkl> anything more clara?
<clara> Openlayers is under control - and anybody who wants to work on it for other things can check the code out of the git repro

# Daniel Joseph

Daniel Joseph, intern at the American Red Cross working with Robert Banick, worked on documenting LearnOSM to make it easier for translators to get involved.

I'm going to be working on documenting/formalizing a workflow for translating into different languages. As envisioned right now (as mentioned by Mikel in the previous emails), there will be two roles. A manager of sorts who is comfortable working with GitHub and will set up the structure for the new language pages, interact with translator(s), run quality control (example: making sure page links aren't broken), and run the technical side of things. And the translator(s) who will work within prose.io translate page content.

# Tasking Manager

Tasking Manager. Steve ended up being too busy. So I looked at the reported tasking, connecting tasking manager to iD w/ tile background. Turns out that hits an issue on OSM website, which I reported as an issue, and now fixed! https://github.com/systemed/iD/issues/1682. I'll need to complete the job soon, but a nice result. 

After that, I got interested in how the Tasking Manager could be used to support the DC Buildings import (did you hear from Alex on this yet?). Specifically, need to allow the TM to build tasks on arbitrary geometries, not just tiles. I did some testing, and it will work https://github.com/osmlab/dcbuildings/issues/19#issuecomment-22458606. So now need to follow through, build proper upload interface, and smooth rough edges. Waiting for signals on next steps from the building import.

# Martijn


Nothing happened in the groups project this weekend that I know of, which may very well have to do with my lack of promoting the whole thing. (Sure I contributed to the sprint web page and I tweeted about it a few times, but I did not reach out to folks individually.) 
For me, virtual code sprints do not work so well - if I'm not in the same room with other folks working on similar things, and it's a weekend, it's hard for me to motivate myself to spend time staring at code instead of going out to play.

I am curious to see what has been accomplished in other projects though - I looked over the IRC #osm-us backlog and the weekend was really quiet. Perhaps most of the progress was in fact made by folks physically getting together.
 
Thanks for leading the effort nonetheless.

Martijn

# Jeff Meyer

FYI - all has not been quiet on the Historical Mapping front during the Birthday sprint weekend.

- Dynamic updates - tile serving updates seem to be fixed... give 'er a shot and let me know if it's working (or not for you). The problem, once discovered, as many are, was small and easily fixed.
- Carto-based styling - we're now switched over to Carto for our styling. If there are changes you'd like to make, please check out our stylesheets at https://github.com/OpenHistoricalMap/ohm-carto, which you can check out, test with TileMill. Once you're happy with your changes, you can do a pull request and we can get these styles updated on our server. If that sounds waaaay too techie (because it is), send me a note directly & we can get you up and running.
- A (soon to be time) filtered layer - called Experimental is now up on the Sandbox. Go here: http://www.openhistoricalmap.org/?lat=40.79433&lon=-119.2171&zoom=17&layers=H and then select the Experimental layer. You'll see some of the point change. So... there's a first step toward filtering based on time rules. Thanks to Mikel and Dan Vanderkam for working on that out in DC.

Other issues coming soon:

- Coastline updater - I'm working to get this running so that we can see shorelines updated as we remove man-made landfills and piers, particularly in urban areas.
- Crazy stuff - I'm not sure what Rob Warren is doing, but I think he has some fun stuff related to linked data up his sleeve & coming soon.

As background, we have had a couple server-related issues over the past couple of months. I'm hoping we can track those issues down and keep it running more reliably moving forward.

I hope to have more to share in the near future,
take care,
Jeff